We introduced augmented complex zonotopes as a more general set
representation than template complex zonotopes, based on which we
derived efficiently solvable conditions for computing invariants,
subject to linear safety constraints, for discrete time affine hybrid
systems with linear guards and additive disturbance input.  Like
template complex zonotopes, augmented complex zonotopes have the
advantage that we can meaningfully choose the templates for efficient
fixpoint computation, based on the eigenstructure and and other
relevant aspects of the dynamics.  But additionally, we overcame a
drawback of template complex zonotopes in that we derived a simple
algebraic expression for reasonable overapproximation of the
intersection with a class of linear constraints.  We use this
algebraic expression to obtain of a set of second order conic
constraints that can be efficiently solved to compute an invariant.
In contrast to the step-by-step reachability computation approaches
that iteratively accumulate overapproximation error, we instead
compute an invariant in a single convex optimization step such that
the optimizer inherently minimizes the overapproximation error.  We
demonstrated the efficiency of our approach on some benchmark
examples.

As future work, we can investigate ways to minimize the
overapproximation error in the intersection operation, such that the
overapproximation can still be algebrically computed.  In particular,
the relation between the choice of the template and the
over-approximation error in the intersection has to be analyzed.  Also, we
would like to extend this computational framework to continuous
time hybrid systems.
