Computing reachable sets is a de facto approach in many verification
problems for hybrid systems.  But exact computation of the reachable
set is an intractable problem for many kinds of hybrid systems, either
due to undecidability or high computational complexity.
Alternatively, a lot of research has been focused on using \emph{set
  representations} that can be efficiently manipulated to compute
sufficiently accurate over-approximation of the reachable set.
Zonotopes are a useful set representation in reachability analysis
because of their closure and low complexity for computing linear
transformation and Minkowski sum operations.  But for approximating the
unbounded time reachable sets by \emph{positive invariants}, zonotope
have the following drawback.  The efficiency of computing a positive
invariant depends on capturing directions for convergence of the states
to an equilibrium.  In affine hybrid systems, some of the directions
for convergence can be encoded by the complex valued eigenvectors of
the transformation matrices.  But the zonotope representation can not
exploit the complex eigenstructure of the transformation matrices
because it has only real valued generators.

Therefore, we extend real zonotopes to the complex valued domain in a
way that can capture contraction along complex valued vectors.  This
yields a new set representation called \emph{complex zonotope}.
Geometrically, complex zonotopes represent a wider class of sets that
include some non-polytopic sets as well as polytopic zonotopes.  They
retain the merit of real zonotopes that we can efficiently perform
linear transformation and Minkowski sum operations and compute the
support function.  Additionally, we show that they can capture
contraction along complex valued eigenvectors.  Apart from the
aforementioned computationally efficient operations on complex
zonotopes, we develop computationally tractable approximations for
inclusion-checking and intersection with half-spaces.  Using these
techniques we develop convex programs to verify \emph{linear
invariance properties} of discrete time affine hybrid systems and
exponential stability of \emph{linear impulsive systems}.  Our
experiments on some benchmark examples demonstrate the efficiency of
the verification techniques based on complex zonotopes.
