
In the previous chapter, we have explained the advantage of simple
zonotopes that they are closed under linear transformation and
Minkowski sum operations and these can be computed efficiently.
Regarding computation of a positive invariant real zonotope for a
linear system, we showed in Proposition~\ref{prop:eig-rztope} that it
can be done efficiently when the eigenvectors are real valued.
However, when the eigenvectors of a stable linear system are complex
valued, we can not guarantee the existence of a non-zero real
zonotopic positive invariant.  Overcoming this drawback of real
zonotopes, we extend them to a new class of sets called \emph{complex
zonotopes} by which we can easily specify positive invariants of a
stable linear system using the eigenstructure.  Henceforth, we believe
that even for affine hybrid systems, a complex zonotope can capture
contraction along the complex eigenvectors of some of the
transformation matrices.  Complex zonotopes are also geometrically
more expressive, since their real projections can describe Minkowski
sums of some ellipsoids along with line segments.  Apart from
computing simple operations on complex zonotopes like linear
transformation and Minkowski sum, we shall derive a convex program for
checking inclusion between two complex zonotopes.  The inclusion
relation is a key ingredient for efficient invariant computation,
which we shall discuss in latter chapters.

This chapter is organized into three main sections.  In
Section~\ref{sec:representation}, we shall introduce the basic
representation of a complex zonotope that naturally extends the
Definition~\ref{defn:rztope} of real zonotopes.  Further on, we shall
introduce a more general but geometrically equivalent representation,
called \emph{template complex zonotope}, which allows efficient
modification of complex zonotopic sets for increasing accuracy of
abstraction of sets.  In Section~\ref{sec:operations-tcz}, we shall
discuss basic operations on a template complex zonotope like linear
transformation, Minkowski sum and computation of support function.  In
Section~\ref{sec:inclusion-tcz}, we shall derive a convex program for
checking the inclusion between two template complex zonotopes.  

\section{Representation of a complex zonotope}~\label{sec:representation}
\input{chapters/sections-ch-tcz/representation}

\section{Basic operations}~\label{sec:operations-tcz}
\input{chapters/sections-ch-tcz/operations}

\section{Checking inclusion}~\label{sec:inclusion-tcz}
\input{chapters/sections-ch-tcz/inclusion}
